News about Mesh_3 (#43)
CGAL/cgal-web: _posts/2024-12-01-mesh3-improvements.md

---
layout: post

> title: "Tetrahedral Mesh Generation improvements"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Tetrahedral Mesh Generation Improvements"
```

description: "Tetrahedral Mesh Generation improvements in CGAL-6.0.1"
category:
tags: [""]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<h3><a href="https://geometryfactory.com/who-we-are/">Jane Tournois</a></h3>
<h4><a href="http://www.geometryfactory.com" target="_blank">GeometryFactory</a></h4>

<p>Introduced in CGAL 3.5, the package
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/latest/Manual/packages.html#PkgMesh3" text="3D Mesh Generation">3D Mesh Generation</a>

> is designed to generate a isotropic simplicial meshes discretizing 3D domains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enables the generation of isotropic simplicial meshes discretizing 3D domains.
```

> Since then, multiple improvements in mesh quality, performances, and versatility have been made available in CGAL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since then, multiple improvements in mesh quality, performance, and versatility have been made available in CGAL.
```

Lately, CGAL authors have focused more on the quality of the output mesh, the ability of the
mesh generation algorithm to represent the input surface in a more accurate way, for a wider range of input data types.
</p>

<br>
<p>Recent releases of CGAL have introduced improvements to the 3D Tetrahedral Mesh Generation package:
detection and protection of triple lines from labeled images,
generation and use of weighted labeled images,
and a new approximation error criterion for polyline features.</p>

<br>

> <h3>Triple lines from labeled images</h3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<h3>Triple Lines from Labeled Images</h3>
```

<p>CGAL's tetrahedral mesh generation algorithm is able to compute tetrahedral meshes from 3D segmented images.
For all types of inputs, detection and construction of one-dimensional features must be done a priori for the
feature protection algorithm to be able to represent them properly in the generated mesh.
In 3D segmented images, such features correspond to the intersections of the bounding box of the image with the surfaces
defined by the image, as well as polylines that lie at the intersection of three or more subdomains (including the outside).</p>

<p>The article
<a href="https://opus4.kobv.de/opus4-zib/frontdoor/index/index/docId/274"><i>Hege, H. C., Seebass, M., Stalling, D., & Zöckler, M. (1997),
A generalized marching cubes algorithm based on non-binary classifications</i></a>, provides a list of possible voxel configurations.
This description has been generalized for tetrahedral mesh generation needs, and
implemented in CGAL.</p>

<p>After feature lines detection, similarly to what is done for polyhedral surfaces, the polyline features
are added to the feature graph of the domain for feature protection.</p>

<p>Two detection functors are provided :
<ul>

>   <li><i>CGAL::Detect_features_in_image()</i> detects and constructs all

Reviewer: In other posts I saw <code>..</code> being used.

Author: like `CGAL::Detect_features_in_image(..)` ?

Reviewer: `<code>...</code>`

    polylines lying at the intersection of three or more subdomains, and</li>
  <li><i>CGAL::Detect_features_on_image_bbox()</i> detects and constructs the polylines
    that lie at the intersection of two or more subdomains and the bounding box of the input labeled image.</li>
</ul>
</p>

<div style="text-align:center;">
  <a href="../../../../images/mesh3_triple_lines_protection.png"><img src="../../../../images/mesh3_triple_lines_protection.png" style="max-width:80%"/></a><br>
  <br><small>Mesh generation from labeled image without (left)
   and with triple lines detection and protection (right).
   The polylines lying at the intersection of three or more subdomains are
   a lot more precise with a lot fewer vertices.</small>
</div>

<br>
<h3>Weighted Labeled Images</h3>

<p>When a segmented image is given as input for tetrahedral mesh generation,
the generated mesh surface sometimes sticks too closely to the voxels surface, causing an aliasing effect. A solution to generate

> a smooth and accurate output surface was described by Stalling et al in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a smooth and accurate output surface was described by Stalling et al. in
```

presents challenges. A new method that combines feature detection and weighted labels has been
designed and implemented in CGAL, achieving smooth and feature preserving output meshes.
This method leverages the best of these two new functionalities.</p>

<br>
<h3>Approximation Criterion on Feature Edges</h3>

<p>A Delaunay refinement algorithm is guided by meshing criteria that trigger Steiner vertices insertions,
until they are satisfied.
The list of CGAL meshing criteria has been enriched with a new criterion that enables the user to
define an upper bound on the distance between the input feature graph and the output feature edges.</p>

<p>The following example shows how to use this new criterion, called <i>edge_distance</i>:
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/6.0.1/Mesh_3/Mesh_3_2mesh_polyhedral_domain_with_edge_distance_8cpp-example.html">
mesh_polyhedral_domain_with_edge_distance.cpp</a>.</p>

<div style="text-align:center;">
  <a href="../../../../images/mesh3_edge_distance_stool.png"><img src="../../../../images/mesh3_edge_distance_stool.png" style="max-width:65%"/></a><br>
  <br><small>Mesh generation from polyhedral surface with varying <i>edge_distance</i> meshing criterion.

>   The quality improvement is important on the lower end of stool feet.</small>

Reviewer: "at the bottom"  instead of "lower end" ?
